1. (1,1) down: And it is a ringing confirmation of the nature of black holes, the _ gravitational pits from which not even light can escape, which were the most foreboding (and unwelcome) part of his theory.
2. (1,4) across: The researchers calculated that a _ gravitational wave from out in space would change the distance between a pair of mirrors by an almost imperceptible amount: one part in a billion trillion.
3. (3,2) across: More generally, it means that a century of innovation, testing, questioning and _ hard work after Einstein imagined it on paper, scientists have finally tapped into the deepest register of physical reality, where the weirdest and wildest implications of Einsteins universe become manifest.
4. (6,1) down: But waves fade with distance, and when they _ reached Earth, the distortions were too small to be measured above the heat, noise and other vibrations of our planet.
4. (6,1) down: But waves fade with distance, and when they _ reached Earth, the distortions were too small to be measured above the heat, noise and other vibrations of our planet.
4. (6,1) down: VideoScientists announced that they had _ detected gravitational waves, the ripples in the fabric of space-time that Albert Einstein predicted a century ago.
4. (6,1) down: But waves fade with distance, and when they _ reached Earth, the distortions were too small to be measured above the heat, noise and other vibrations of our planet.
5. (4,4) down: The _ gravity accelerated the black holes to half the speed of light, pulling them closer and carving distortions in space and time.
5. (4,4) down: The _ gravity accelerated the black holes to half the speed of light, pulling them closer and carving distortions in space and time.
5. (4,4) down: The _ gravity accelerated the black holes to half the speed of light, pulling them closer and carving distortions in space and time.
5. (4,4) down: The _ gravity accelerated the black holes to half the speed of light, pulling them closer and carving distortions in space and time.
5. (4,4) down: The _ gravity accelerated the black holes to half the speed of light, pulling them closer and carving distortions in space and time.
6. (6,6) across: Dr. Drever wanted to use _  laser beams bouncing between precisely positioned mirrors  to detect the squeeze and stretch of a passing wave.
7. (10,2) down: That _ rising tone, physicists say, is the first direct evidence of gravitational waves, the ripples in the fabric of space-time that Einstein predicted a century ago.
8. (9,3) across: By timing its pulses, the astronomers determined that the stars were losing energy and falling closer together at precisely the rate that would be expected if they were _ gravitational waves.
9. (3,10) across: Instead, Einstein said, matter and energy distort the geometry of the universe in the way a _ sleeper causes a mattress to sag, producing the effect we call gravity.
10. (5,10) down: If replicated by future experiments, that simple chirp, which rose to the note of middle C before abruptly stopping, seems destined to take its place among the great sound bites of science, ranking with _ Graham Bells Mr.
11. (13,3) down: Its been decades, through a lot of different technological innovations, France Crdova, the foundations director, said in an interview, recalling how, in the early years, the foundations _ board had really scratched their heads on this one.
12. (8,9) across: Conveyed by these gravitational waves, power 50 times greater than the output of all the stars in the _ combined vibrated a pair of L-shaped antennas in Washington State and Louisiana known as LIGO on Sept. 14.
13. (2,16) across: A disturbance in the cosmos could cause space-time to stretch, collapse and even jiggle, like a mattress shaking when that sleeper rolls over, _ ripples of gravity: gravitational waves.
14. (9,11) down: The chirp is also sweet vindication for the _ Science Foundation , which spent about $1.1 billion over more than 40 years to build a new hotline to nature, facing down criticism that sources of gravitational waves were not plentiful or loud enough to justify the cost.
14. (9,11) down: Important players in the LIGO project, from left to right: Kip Thorne of the California Institute of Technology, France A. Crdova of the _ Science Foundation, Rainer Weiss of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, David Reitze of Caltech and Gabriela Gonzlez of Louisiana State University.Credit
Lexey Swall for The New York Times
Until now, we scientists have only seen warped space-time when its calm, Dr. Thorne said in an email.
15. (15,8) down: Another group of astronomers who go by the name Bicep made headlines in 2014 when they claimed to have _ gravitational waves from the beginning of the Big Bang, using a telescope at the South Pole.
16. (8,18) across: Only three days before the _ hole chirp came in, Dr. Weiss was at the Livingston site, he recalled, and was horrified to find that the antenna readings were plagued by radio interference.
16. (8,18) across: I was freaking out, said Janna Levin, a theorist at Barnard College at Columbia who was not part of LIGO but was granted an early look at the results for her warts-and-all book about the project, _ Hole Blues, to be published this spring.
16. (8,18) across: A team of scientists announced on Thursday that they had heard and recorded the sound of two _ holes colliding a billion light-years away, a fleeting chirp that fulfilled the last prediction of Einsteins general theory of relativity .
16. (8,18) across: Detailed analysis of its form told a tale of Brobdingnagian activities in a far corner of the universe: the last waltz of a pair of _ holes shockingly larger than astrophysicists had been expecting.
17. (12,15) across: Continue reading the main story VideoAbout a _ years ago, Einstein predicted the existence of gravitational waves, but until now, they were undetectable.
18. (17,12) down: We are all over the moon and back, said Gabriela Gonzlez of Louisiana State University, a spokeswoman for the LIGO Scientific Collaboration, short for _ Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory.
